---
title: "Inside"
subtitle: "From Problem Awareness to Solution"
description: "History of encounters with numerous purposefully organized cases of voting fraud. Formation of secure voting principles. The emergence of the idea. Technology development. Patents. Possibilities of use. Paths and conditions for promotion. Perspectives."
layout: "docs-page"  
weight: 10
---
The encounters with numerous purposefully organized cases of voting fraud. The emergence of the idea. Formation of secure voting principles. Technology development. Patents. Possibilities of use. Paths and conditions for promotion. Perspectives

## [Prerequisites](/docs/inside/Prerequisites/)  

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;An excursion into history showing the events and the emotions they evoked that led to the development of an online voting system. An examination of the problems that have prevented such a system from existing, and the formulation of the tasks that must be solved within our moral and ethical framework.

## [Quest for solutions](/docs/Inside/quest_for_solutions/)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A concise summary of the successive ideas that preceded the formation of the final solution, outlining the goals this solution had to achieve. An enumeration of the problems generated by these very ideas, and the formulation of requirements for a system capable of overcoming the entire complex of issues while circumventing the tangled knot of contradictions. The setting of objectives.

## [A cure-all technology](/docs/Inside/A_cure-all_technology/)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A concise summary of the multitude of ideas, realized in inventions, that constitute the solution achieving all the set goals. A separate examination of problematic situations at different stages and in different processes of secret remote electronic (online) voting, and of the components that form an inseparable complex, constituting the technology that solves all these problems.


## [Prospects for Implementation](/docs/Inside/Prospects_for_Implementation/)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A description of our understanding of the paths for implementing and launching the technology we have developed, as of the site's launch date.

## [Usage possibilities](/docs/Inside/Usage_possibilities/)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A demonstration of the wide spectrum of possibilities for applying the system in which our developed technology is implemented. These possibilities are enabled by its ease of use, inherent accessibility, scalability, and adaptability—its readiness to be configured for a wide variety of analytical purposes.

## [Strategic Impact](/docs/Inside/Strategic_Impact/)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;An enumeration of the most critical changes in the mechanisms of societal democratization that are set in motion by the implementation of a system based on our technology. A description of the role such a system plays in fostering political stability, reducing social tension and conflict within society, and preventing destructive processes and critical crises.